# Classroom-Coding

## Purpose
This is a personal project of mine that I built to learn Django. The actual description of the project is included in the design document on github; however, this repo is also meant to serve as review for the PennApps development team and to help everyone on the team learn Django. Below, I will cover a big overview of general Django development concepts, link some helpful resources, and comment on parts of my codebase I'd heavily suggest members of the PennApps team to look at. 
## Migrations
Django does a lot of heavy lifting for us. To truly understand how databases work in Django, it's good to think about it on a high level. First of all, to explain, a database can simply be thought of a place to store a lot of information. If we were to store one big string inside a textfile in our directory, that textfile could be called a database. Of course Sqlite(our db) is a little more complicated than that. But similarly, all of our data in django is stored in a file in the core directory. Our database is defined by our models(the classes you write in model.py). When we run '''python manage.py makemigrations''' and '''python manage.py migrate''' we are taking our models, converting them into actual sqlite code (which defines the structure of the database) and running the sqlite code. To learn more about sqlite, feel free to read this: https://www.sqlitetutorial.net/what-is-sqlite/
## User Authentication 
To learn more about creating a user class, please check out this resource: https://wsvincent.com/django-tips-custom-user-model/. Everyone should always be extending the user class as a general good practice in Django. Please look at my views.py for implementation specifics of user authentication. I will also explain on a general level exactly how user authentication works. Essentially, it makes use of a specific type of cookie called session. A cookie is simply a small piece of data which is stored locally in your browser. When users log in, a session is sent (which uniquely identifies which user you're logged in as). When you log out, the session is deleted. You do not need to understand this on a high level for Django; however, this is good to know. 
## Website Structure
In the django tutorial, all of our urls were defined by 'polls/INSERTSOMETHINGHERE'. In general, we want the home page to simply be '/' and other pages to look like this '/INSERTSOMETHINGHERE'. To do this, in your core/urls.py(the one that isn't a part of the app that you create), simply make sure the path has an empty string(if this is confusing just look at my code base)

## Final Thoughts
Those were the general issues I saw people were having. If any of this doesn't make sense or you have another question, please message me, email me, leave feedback on here. Do anything it takes! I don't want any of us to fall behind. Thank you guys for your hard work and hope the semester is starting off very well :) 
